When discussing events that would occur in the time of the end, Jesus Christ gave the warning that's recorded in our day's text.
Let's read it in its context, please, Matthew chapter 24 verses 42 through 45.
It says, but no one thing, that's verse 43. It says, keep on the watch, therefore, because you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
But no one thing, if the householder had known in what watch the thief was coming, he would have kept awake and not allowed his house to be broken into.
On this account, you too, prove yourselves ready, because at an hour that you, you disciples, do not think to be it.
The son of man is coming at an hour that you do not think to be it.
And then it says, who really is the faithful and discreet slave, whom his master appointed over his domestics to give them their food at the proper time?
Well, what does it mean for us to keep on the watch? As Jesus indicated, it means that when he comes as Jehovah's
executional agent, we want to be ready. We want to be acting appropriately, and we want to be busy in the work that he has assigned his true followers to do.
And how do we do that? Notice that verse 45 draws our attention to the faithful and discreet slave, a slave that would give the domestics their food at the proper time food
that would enable them to be ready. For instance, consider some of the things that we have been learning with the help of the faithful and discreet slave recently.
The watchtower of May 15, 2000, page 14, paragraph 27 had this to say, quote,
all the prophecies in the book of Daniel have been fulfilled except for a few details.
And what are those details? Paragraph 28 continued that a study of Daniel chapter 11 shows that the conflict between the king of the north and the king of the south has reached its final stages.
Well, that helped us keep on the watch. Further light on Daniel's prophecy came in the watchtower of June 15, 2012, in the article Jehovah reveals what must shortly take place.
There, in explaining the significance of Nebuchadnezzar's dream image and the toes that prove partly strong and partly fragile, the watchtower said this regarding the king of the south.
The common people undermine the ability of the Anglo-American world power to act with iron-like strength, also opposing ideologies and close election results that not end up in a clear majority have weakened the power base of even popular leaders so that they have no clear mandate to implement their policies.
And of quote, 2012, that was, well, that helped us to keep on the watch.
And lately, we received the May 2020 study edition of the watchtower containing three study articles that center on Daniel chapter 11.
Do you recall some of the new points from that issue? There were many, but here are two.
First, we used to feel that the king of the north or the Soviet Union at the time entered into what Daniel 1141 calls the land of decoration during the Cold War by persecuting genuine Christians in limiting, although not stopping their activity.
But now, the May study edition has expanded that application, saying that the king of the north entered into the land of decoration on a number of occasions throughout the last days.
It is done so by banning our publications, our preaching work and our meetings, by confiscating our property and by persecuting and killing God's people.
This clear understanding is helping people keep on the watch and not to become discouraged by persecution.
A second point in that May study edition is this. Daniel 1144 and 45 says that the king of the north, regarding the king of the north, he's concerned about reports out of the east and out of the north.
And that third study article links that prophecy to Revelation 1621, which foretells great hailstones that rain down on God's enemies.
Well, the faithful and discreet slave has already said that this symbolic hailstorm may take the form of a hard-hitting judgment message delivered by Jehovah's people.
But this study article, on page 15, even goes so far as to say, it could be that this message, this hailstone message itself is what provokes God of Megah or the coalition of nations into attacking God's people.
Well, this kind of spiritual feeding helps us to be ready, helps us to act appropriately, helps us to be busy in the work that Jesus has assigned for His true disciples in this time of the end.
Well, at our meetings and through our publications, we are trained to compare the world situation with what the Bible says would be happening right before the end.
And what do we find? That the events, the attitudes, the political circumstances and the condition and activity of God's people match exactly what the Bible says would be in evidence right before the end.
Still, some might ask, couldn't that term Jesus used at Matthew 24-3 conclusion of the system of things referred to a yet future time when world conditions will be even worse?
Again, the watchtower posed that very question in the August 15, 2015 issue.
How did it answer that question? With yet another question, namely, how bad do you expect conditions to become before the Great Tribulation?
For example, it continued, do you expect that there will be war in every country, no food on anyone's table and illness in every household under those conditions, even skeptics would likely feel compelled to admit that Bible prophecy was undergoing fulfillment.
However, Jesus said that most people would take no note of his presence carrying on with life's normal activities until it is too late.
A reference to Matthew 24-37 through 39.
So the fulfillment of the sign can't be so obvious that we are forced to be ready.
There has to be space for people either to acknowledge the sign or take no note.
Well, that thought also helps us to keep on the watch.
But I've been waiting a long time and I haven't yet participated in the Hailstone work.
What if I don't personally live to see the end of the system of things?
Again, what do we learn from the faithful and discrete slave?
Did you notice this beautiful point in the 2020 watchtower, public edition number two, page 15?
It said, even though Jesus' disciples in the first century didn't see the end of all pain and suffering in their lifetime, they were protected.
How?
They lived by God's righteous standards and that protected them from the difficulties suffered by those who ignored what God said.
Their strong faith that the kingdom would come helped them to face even the severest of problems.
And God gave them power beyond what is normal so that they could cope with challenges and achieve remarkable goals.
And we could add that because of their record of integrity with endurance, they are receiving blessings, endless blessings right now.
And so will all who imitate their faith.
Powerful incentives to endure.
Even though we do not know on what day our Lord is coming, we have a big privilege to take in the nourishment that Jehovah provides, nourishment,
spiritual food that helps us to be ready.